# Source Code


<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

## Helper functions

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a
href="https://github.com/nicomarr/scholaris-minimal-reproduction-1/blob/main/scholaris_minimal_reproduction_1/core.py#L33"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### generate_json_schema

>      generate_json_schema (func:Callable)

\*Generate a JSON schema for the given function based on its annotations
and docstring.

Args: func (Callable): The function to generate a schema for.

Returns: Dict\[str, Any\]: A JSON schema for the function.\*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a
href="https://github.com/nicomarr/scholaris-minimal-reproduction-1/blob/main/scholaris_minimal_reproduction_1/core.py#L118"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### json_schema_decorator

>      json_schema_decorator (func:~T)

\*Decorator to generate and attach a JSON schema to a function.

Args: func (Callable): The function to decorate.

Returns: Callable: The decorated function with an attached JSON
schema.\*

## Local file processing: listing, content extraction, and summarization

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a
href="https://github.com/nicomarr/scholaris-minimal-reproduction-1/blob/main/scholaris_minimal_reproduction_1/core.py#L138"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### get_file_names

>      get_file_names (ext:str='pdf, txt')

\*Retrieves a list of file names with specified extensions in a local
data directory the assistant has access to on the user’s computer.

Args: ext: A comma-separated string of file extensions to filter the
files by. Options are: pdf, txt, md, markdown, csv, and py. Defaults to
“pdf, txt”.

Returns: str: A comma-separated string of file names with the specified
extensions. If no files are found, a message is returned.

Example: \>\>\> get_file_names(ext=“pdf, txt”)

    "List of file names with the specified extensions in the local data directory: file1.pdf, file2.txt"*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a
href="https://github.com/nicomarr/scholaris-minimal-reproduction-1/blob/main/scholaris_minimal_reproduction_1/core.py#L187"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### extract_text_from_pdf

>      extract_text_from_pdf (file_name:str, page_range:Optional[str]=None)

\*A function that extracts text from a PDF file. Use this tool to
extract specific details from a PDF document, such as abstract, authors,
conclusions, or user-specified content of other sections. If the user
specifies a page rage, use the optional page_range parameter to extract
text from specific pages. If the user uses words such as beginning,
middle, or end, to descripe the section, infer the page range based on
the total number of 15 pages in a document. Do not use this tool to
summarize an entire PDF document. Only use this tool for documents with
extensions .pdf, or .PDF.

Args: file_name (str): The file name of the PDF document in the local
data directory. page_range (Optional\[str\]): A string with page numbers
and/or page ranges separated by commas (e.g., “1” or “1, 2”, or “5-7”).
Default is None to extract all pages.

Returns: str: Extracted text from the PDF.

Example: \>\>\> text = extract_text_from_pdf(“./test.pdf”,
page_range=“1”)\*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a
href="https://github.com/nicomarr/scholaris-minimal-reproduction-1/blob/main/scholaris_minimal_reproduction_1/core.py#L278"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### extract_title_and_first_author

>      extract_title_and_first_author (contents:List[Dict[str,str]],
>                                      model:str='llama3.1',
>                                      verbose:Optional[bool]=False,
>                                      show_progress:Optional[bool]=False)

\*A function that extracts the titles and the first author’s names from
the text of one or more research articles.

Args: contents (List\[Dict\[str, str\]\]): A list of dictionaries
containing the file name and extracted text. model (str): The model to
use for the extraction. Default is ‘llama3.1’. verbose
(Optional\[bool\]): Whether to print additional information. Default is
False. show_progress (Optional\[bool\]): Whether to show a progress bar.
Default is False.

Returns: contents (List\[Dict\[str, str\]\]): The input list of
dictionaries with the extracted title and first author added.

Raises: JSONDecodeError: If the JSON response is invalid.

Example: \>\>\> contents = extract_title_and_first_author(contents)
Extracting titles and first authors: 100%|██████████| 3/3
\[00:22\<00:00, 7.35s/it\]\*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a
href="https://github.com/nicomarr/scholaris-minimal-reproduction-1/blob/main/scholaris_minimal_reproduction_1/core.py#L359"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### get_titles_and_first_authors

>      get_titles_and_first_authors ()

\*A function that retrieves the titles of research articles from a
directory of PDF files.

Returns: str: A JSON-formatted string containing the titles, first
authors and file names of the research articles.

Raises: FileNotFoundError: If the specified directory does not exist.

Example: \>\>\> get_titles_and_first_authors()\*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a
href="https://github.com/nicomarr/scholaris-minimal-reproduction-1/blob/main/scholaris_minimal_reproduction_1/core.py#L413"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### summarize_local_document

>      summarize_local_document (file_name:str, ext:str='pdf')

\*Summarize the content of a single PDF, markdown, or text document from
the local data directory.

Args: file_name (str): The file name of the local document to summarize.
ext (str): The extension of the local document. Options are: pdf, txt,
md, and markdown. Defaults to “pdf”.

Returns: str: The summary of the content of the local document.

Example: \>\>\> summarize_local_document(“research_paper”, ext=“pdf”)\*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a
href="https://github.com/nicomarr/scholaris-minimal-reproduction-1/blob/main/scholaris_minimal_reproduction_1/core.py#L527"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### describe_python_code

>      describe_python_code (file_name:str)

\*Describe the purpose of the Python code in a local Python file. This
may involve summarizing the entire code, extracting key functions, or
providing an overview of the code structure.

Args: file_name (str): The file name of the local Python code file
document to describe.

Returns: str: A description of the purpose of the Python code in the
local file.

Example: \>\>\> describe_python_code(“main.py”, ext=“py”)\*

## External data retrieval from NCBI, OpenAlex and Semantic Scholar

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a
href="https://github.com/nicomarr/scholaris-minimal-reproduction-1/blob/main/scholaris_minimal_reproduction_1/core.py#L682"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### id_converter_tool

>      id_converter_tool (ids:List[str])

\*For any article(s) in PubMed Central, find all the corresponding
PubMed IDs (PMIDs), digital object identifiers (DOIs), and manuscript
IDs (MIDs). Use this tool to convert a list of IDs, such as PMIDs,
PMCIDs, or DOIs, and find the corresponding IDs for the same articles.

Args: ids (str): A string with a comma-separated list of IDs to convert.
Must be PMIDs, PMCIDs, or DOIs. The maximum number of IDs per request is
200.

Returns: str: A JSON-formatted string containing the conversion results
and the detected ID types.\*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a
href="https://github.com/nicomarr/scholaris-minimal-reproduction-1/blob/main/scholaris_minimal_reproduction_1/core.py#L655"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### detect_id_type

>      detect_id_type (id_string:str)

\*Detect the type of the given ID or title.

Args: id_string (str): The ID or title to detect.

Returns: str: The detected type (‘pmid’, ‘pmcid’, ‘doi’, ‘openalex’,
‘semantic_scholar’, ‘potential_title’, or ‘unknown’).\*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a
href="https://github.com/nicomarr/scholaris-minimal-reproduction-1/blob/main/scholaris_minimal_reproduction_1/core.py#L612"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### convert_id

>      convert_id (ids:List[str])

\*For any article(s) in PubMed Central, find all the corresponding
PubMed IDs (PMIDs), digital object identifiers (DOIs), and manuscript
IDs (MIDs).

Args: ids (List\[str\]): A list of IDs to convert (max 200 per request).

Returns: Str: A JSON-formatted string containing the conversion
results.\*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a
href="https://github.com/nicomarr/scholaris-minimal-reproduction-1/blob/main/scholaris_minimal_reproduction_1/core.py#L732"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### query_openalex_api

>      query_openalex_api (query_param:str)

\*Retrieve metadata for a given article from OpenAlex, a comprehensive
open-access catalog of global research papers. Use this tool to search
the OpenAlex API by using the article title, the PubMed ID (PMID), the
PubMed Central ID (PMCID) or the digital object identifier (DOI) of an
article as the query parameter. This tool returns the following
metadata: - the OpenAlex ID - the digital object identifier (DOI) URL -
Citation count - The open access status - URL to the open-access
location for the work - Publication year - A URL to a website listing
works that have cite the article - The type of the article Use this tool
only if an article title, PubMed ID or DOI is provided by the user or
was extracted from a local PDF file and is present in the conversation
history.

Args: query_param (str): The article title, the PubMed ID (PMID), the
PubMed Central ID (PMCID) or the digital object identifier (DOI) of the
article to retrieve metadata for. May be provided by the user or
extracted from a local PDF file and present in the conversation history.

Returns: str: A JSON-formatted string including the search results from
the OpenAlex database. If no results are found or the API query fails,
an appropriate message is returned.\*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a
href="https://github.com/nicomarr/scholaris-minimal-reproduction-1/blob/main/scholaris_minimal_reproduction_1/core.py#L826"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### query_semantic_scholar_api

>      query_semantic_scholar_api (query_param:str)

\*Retrieve metadata for a given article from the Semantic Scholar
Academic Graph (S2AG), a large knowledge graph of scientific literature
that combines data from multiple sources. Use this tool to query the
Semantic Scholar Graph API by using either the article title, the PubMed
ID, or the digital object identifier (DOI) to retrieve the following
metadata: - the title - the publication year - the abstract - a tldr
(too long, didn’t read) summary - the authors of the article - the URL
to the open-access PDF version of the article, if available - the
journal name - a url to the article on the Semantic Scholar website Use
this tool only if an article title, PubMed ID or DOI is provided by the
user or was extracted from a local PDF file and is present in the
conversation history.

Args: query_param (str): The article title, the PubMed ID, or the
digital object identifier of the article to retrieve metadata for. May
be provided by the user or extracted from a local PDF file and present
in the conversation history. Do not include the ‘https://doi.org/’
prefix for DOIs, or keys such as ‘DOI’, ‘PMCID’ or ‘PMID’. The tool will
automatically detect the type of identifier provided.

Returns: str: A JSON-formatted string including the search results from
the Semantic Scholar database. If no results are found or the API query
fails, an appropriate message is returned.\*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a
href="https://github.com/nicomarr/scholaris-minimal-reproduction-1/blob/main/scholaris_minimal_reproduction_1/core.py#L903"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### respond_to_generic_queries

>      respond_to_generic_queries ()

\*A function to respond to generic questions or queries from the user.
Use this tool if no better tool is available.

This tool does not take any arguments.

Returns: str: A response to a generic question.\*

## Assistant class

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a
href="https://github.com/nicomarr/scholaris-minimal-reproduction-1/blob/main/scholaris_minimal_reproduction_1/core.py#L916"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### show_response

>      show_response (response:Dict[str,Any])

\*Print the response from the LLM in a human-readable format.

Args: response (Dict\[str, Any\] or Generator\[Dict\[str, Any\], None,
None\]): The response from the LLM.\*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a
href="https://github.com/nicomarr/scholaris-minimal-reproduction-1/blob/main/scholaris_minimal_reproduction_1/core.py#L948"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### Assistant

>      Assistant (status:dict={}, sys_message:str=None,
>                 model:str='llama3.1:latest',
>                 tools:Dict[str,Any]={'get_file_names': <function
>                 get_file_names at 0x7f28b807dbd0>, 'extract_text_from_pdf':
>                 <function extract_text_from_pdf at 0x7f28b8c796c0>,
>                 'get_titles_and_first_authors': <function
>                 get_titles_and_first_authors at 0x7f28b7ef15a0>,
>                 'summarize_local_document': <function summarize_local_document
>                 at 0x7f28b7ef2050>, 'describe_python_code': <function
>                 describe_python_code at 0x7f28b7ef2560>, 'id_converter_tool':
>                 <function id_converter_tool at 0x7f28b7ef2e60>,
>                 'query_openalex_api': <function query_openalex_api at
>                 0x7f28b7ef2ef0>, 'query_semantic_scholar_api': <function
>                 query_semantic_scholar_api at 0x7f28b7ef35b0>,
>                 'respond_to_generic_queries': <function
>                 respond_to_generic_queries at 0x7f28b7ef3880>},
>                 add_tools:Dict[str,Any]={},
>                 authentication:Optional[Dict[str,str]]=None,
>                 dir_path:str='../data', messages:List[Dict[str,str]]=[])

*Initialize self. See help(type(self)) for accurate signature.*

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 6%" />
<col style="width: 25%" />
<col style="width: 34%" />
<col style="width: 34%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th></th>
<th><strong>Type</strong></th>
<th><strong>Default</strong></th>
<th><strong>Details</strong></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>status</td>
<td>dict</td>
<td>{}</td>
<td>The status of the assistant</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>sys_message</td>
<td>str</td>
<td>None</td>
<td>The system message for the assistant; if not provided, a default
message is used</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>model</td>
<td>str</td>
<td>llama3.1:latest</td>
<td>The model to use for the assistant</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>tools</td>
<td>Dict</td>
<td>{‘get_file_names’: &lt;function get_file_names at
0x7f28b807dbd0&gt;, ‘extract_text_from_pdf’: &lt;function
extract_text_from_pdf at 0x7f28b8c796c0&gt;,
‘get_titles_and_first_authors’: &lt;function
get_titles_and_first_authors at 0x7f28b7ef15a0&gt;,
‘summarize_local_document’: &lt;function summarize_local_document at
0x7f28b7ef2050&gt;, ‘describe_python_code’: &lt;function
describe_python_code at 0x7f28b7ef2560&gt;, ‘id_converter_tool’:
&lt;function id_converter_tool at 0x7f28b7ef2e60&gt;,
‘query_openalex_api’: &lt;function query_openalex_api at
0x7f28b7ef2ef0&gt;, ‘query_semantic_scholar_api’: &lt;function
query_semantic_scholar_api at 0x7f28b7ef35b0&gt;,
‘respond_to_generic_queries’: &lt;function respond_to_generic_queries at
0x7f28b7ef3880&gt;}</td>
<td>The tools available to the assistant</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>add_tools</td>
<td>Dict</td>
<td>{}</td>
<td>Optional argument to add additional tools to the assistant, when
initializing</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>authentication</td>
<td>Optional</td>
<td>None</td>
<td>Authentication credentials for API calls to external services</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>dir_path</td>
<td>str</td>
<td>../data</td>
<td>The directory path to which the assistant has access on the local
computer</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>messages</td>
<td>List</td>
<td>[]</td>
<td>The conversation history</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

``` python
assistant = Assistant()
```

    Loaded Semantic Scholar API key from the environment variables.
    Loaded email address from the environment variables.
    A local directory /Users/user2/GitHub/scholaris-minimal-reproduction-1/data already exists for storing data files. No of files: 0

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a
href="https://github.com/nicomarr/scholaris-minimal-reproduction-1/blob/main/scholaris_minimal_reproduction_1/core.py#L1228"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### add_to_class

>      add_to_class (Class:type)

*Register functions as methods in a class that has already been
defined.*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a
href="https://github.com/fastai/nbdev/blob/master/nbdev/showdoc.py#LNone"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### show_doc

>      show_doc (sym, renderer=None, name:str|None=None, title_level:int=3)

*Show signature and docstring for `sym`*

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 6%" />
<col style="width: 25%" />
<col style="width: 34%" />
<col style="width: 34%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th></th>
<th><strong>Type</strong></th>
<th><strong>Default</strong></th>
<th><strong>Details</strong></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>sym</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Symbol to document</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>renderer</td>
<td>NoneType</td>
<td>None</td>
<td>Optional renderer (defaults to markdown)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>name</td>
<td>str | None</td>
<td>None</td>
<td>Optionally override displayed name of <code>sym</code></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>title_level</td>
<td>int</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>Heading level to use for symbol name</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a
href="https://github.com/fastai/nbdev/blob/master/nbdev/showdoc.py#LNone"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### show_doc

>      show_doc (sym, renderer=None, name:str|None=None, title_level:int=3)

*Show signature and docstring for `sym`*

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 6%" />
<col style="width: 25%" />
<col style="width: 34%" />
<col style="width: 34%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th></th>
<th><strong>Type</strong></th>
<th><strong>Default</strong></th>
<th><strong>Details</strong></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>sym</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Symbol to document</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>renderer</td>
<td>NoneType</td>
<td>None</td>
<td>Optional renderer (defaults to markdown)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>name</td>
<td>str | None</td>
<td>None</td>
<td>Optionally override displayed name of <code>sym</code></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>title_level</td>
<td>int</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>Heading level to use for symbol name</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a
href="https://github.com/fastai/nbdev/blob/master/nbdev/showdoc.py#LNone"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### show_doc

>      show_doc (sym, renderer=None, name:str|None=None, title_level:int=3)

*Show signature and docstring for `sym`*

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 6%" />
<col style="width: 25%" />
<col style="width: 34%" />
<col style="width: 34%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th></th>
<th><strong>Type</strong></th>
<th><strong>Default</strong></th>
<th><strong>Details</strong></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>sym</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Symbol to document</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>renderer</td>
<td>NoneType</td>
<td>None</td>
<td>Optional renderer (defaults to markdown)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>name</td>
<td>str | None</td>
<td>None</td>
<td>Optionally override displayed name of <code>sym</code></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>title_level</td>
<td>int</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>Heading level to use for symbol name</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
